---
layout:     post
title:     Python简明史
subtitle:  Brief History of Python
date:       2019-12-15
author:     BY 英俊
header-img: img/post-bg-universe.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    -Python -Brief History of Python
---
https://ir.lib.vntu.edu.ua/bitstream/handle/123456789/10471/461.pdf?sequence=3
Python的历史可以追溯到1980年代末。
Python1989年十一月份 由荷兰阿姆斯特丹的国家数学和计算机科学研究学会的Guido van Rossum 提出的，
作为ABC语言的继承者能够处理异常以及能与Amoeba操作系统交互。

Van Rossum作为Python的主要作者，他长期以来对Python语言的领导地位也反映在了Python社区给予他的头衔上。
Van Rossum是一个看起来毛茸茸的大哥~Python（大蟒蛇）名字的来源也是因为这个大哥喜欢《巨蟒剧团之飞翔的马戏团》（就是类似于现在小品一样的节目）。
Python是一个广泛应用的多用途高级程序语言。
 
 Its design philosophy emphasizes code readability, and its syntax allows programmers to express concepts in fewer
lines of code than would be possible in languages such as C++ or Java. The language provides constructs
intended to enable clear programs on both a small and large scale.
Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative and
functional programming or procedural styles. It features a dynamic type system and automatic memory
management and has a large and comprehensive standard library. Python interpreters are available for
installation on many operating systems, allowing Python code execution on a wide variety of systems.
Python is a multi-paradigm programming language: object-oriented programming and structured
programming are fully supported, and there are a number of language features which support functional
programming and aspect-oriented programming. Many other paradigms are supported using extensions,
including design by contract and logic programming. Python uses dynamic typing and a combination of
reference counting and a cycle-detecting garbage collector for memory management. An important feature of
Python is dynamic name resolution (late binding), which binds method and variable names during program
execution. The design of Python offers some support for functional programming in the Lisp tradition. The
language has map, reduce and filter functions; comprehensions for lists, dictionaries, and sets; and generator
expressions [2, 91]. The standard library has two modules itertools and functools. Also, Python has
significant advantages over the various programming languages, for example:
 clean syntax (for allocation of blocks to use derogations);
 tolerance programs (that is characteristic of most interpreted languages);
 normal distribution has a lot of useful modules (including the module for developing GUI);
 the use Python in interactive mode (very useful for experimentation and solve simple problems);
 normal distribution is simple but at the same time quite powerful development environment, which is
called IDLE and what is written in Python;
2
 suitable for solving mathematical problems (a means of working with complex numbers, can operate
with integers of arbitrary size, a dialog can be used as a powerful calculator).
However, Python still has some disadvantages. Python like many other interpreted languages that do
not apply, for example, JIT-compilers have a common drawback - the relatively low rate of program
implementation. In addition, the lack of static typing and some other reasons do not allow you to implement
a Python function overloading mechanism at compile time.
Python has a large standard library, commonly cited as one of Python's greatest strengths [3, 178],
providing tools suited to many tasks. This is deliberate and has been described as a "batteries included"
Python philosophy. For Internet-facing applications, a large number of standard formats and protocols (such
as MIME and HTTP) are supported. Modules for creating graphical user interfaces, connecting to relational
databases, pseudorandom number generators, arithmetic with arbitrary precision decimals, manipulating
regular expressions and doing unit testing are also included. Some parts of the standard library are covered
by specifications, but the majority of the modules are not. They are specified by their code, internal
documentation, and test suite (if supplied). However, because most of the standard library is cross-platform
Python code, there are only a few modules that must be altered or completely rewritten by alternative
implementations. The primary mechanism for proposing major new features, for collecting community input
on an issue and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into Python.
Enhancement of the language goes along with development of the CPython reference
implementation. The mailing list python-dev is the primary forum for discussion about the language's
development; specific issues are discussed in the Roundup bug tracker maintained at python.org.
Development takes place on a self-hosted source code repository running Mercurial. A number of alpha,
beta, and release-candidates are also released as previews and for testing before the final release is made.
Although there is a rough schedule for each release, this is often pushed back if the code is not ready. The
development team monitor the state of the code by running the large unit test suite during development, and
using the BuildBot continuous integration system. The community of Python developers has also contributed
over 72,000 software modules (as of January 2016) to the Python Package Index (called PyPI), the official
repository of third-party libraries for Python. The major academic conference on Python is named PyCon.
There are special mentoring programs like the Pyladies.
Python's name is derived from the television series Monty Python's Flying Circus, and it is common
to use Monty Python references in example code [4, 161]. For example, the metasyntactic variables often
used in Python literature are spam and eggs, instead of the traditional foo and bar. As well as this, the official
Python documentation often contains various obscure Monty Python references. Since 2003, Python has
consistently ranked in the top ten most popular programming languages as measured by the TIOBE
Programming Community Index. As of January 2016, it is in the fifth position. It was ranked as
Programming Language of the Year for the year 2007 and 2010. It is the third most popular language whose
grammatical syntax is not predominantly based on C.
Python - stable and common language. It is used in many projects and in various ways: as a basic
programming language or to create extensions and application integration. In Python implemented a large
number of projects, it is also widely used for prototyping of future programs. Python is widely used in many
large companies.
С
